[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
Welcome to Disclosure.
I'm your host,
David Wilcock, and I
am deeply and profoundly
grateful to have
had the opportunity to interview
one of the greatest scientists,
in my view, in modern history.
I'm talking about
Rupert Sheldrake.
It was a tremendous honor
for me to get the chance
to geek out with Rupert
Sheldrake on the same camera,
because this guy
almost more than anyone
else in modern times, has
really created a unified field
theory of consciousness,
showing how
all of these things that
conventional science refuses
to accept are true,
are nonetheless
scientifically provable.
Rupert Sheldrake is showing
how all of these things that
have been discredited
by mainstream science
are nonetheless,
scientifically provable.
And for me, that
is very exciting.
I've been aware of Rupert
Sheldrake's work for years.
I honestly never expected
that I'd get the chance
to talk to him like this.
And I can also say
that when I first
came up to him at this
conference where we found him,
he didn't know who I was.
And he didn't know
whether he wanted to do
an interview with me or not.
But when I started
to talk to him,
and he realized how much
I knew about his work,
he was totally blown away.
So what I discussed
with him was I
wanted to do a
series of episodes
where we would try to bang out
as many different scientific
facts that are totally
amazing as possible.
So buckle in your seat
belt, because this
is going to be a wild ride.
There's a little bit
at the beginning where
he talks about his field theory,
this morphogenetic or morphic
field.
And he says that it's
a habit in nature.
You might be a
little overwhelmed
by the geek speak
at the beginning.
Don't worry.
The theory is implicitly
within the data itself.
So by presenting
the data, you will
understand what the theory is.
So this is very
exciting stuff for me.
You'll see how jazzed I am.
And I keep throwing
all this stuff at him.
And he just bounces back
with incredible answers.
So let's check it out.
Rupert Sheldrake, it's a
pleasure to have you here.
I feel that you are one of the
greatest scientific pioneers
of our time.
I became aware of
your work a long time
ago through what you originally
called "morphogenetic fields",
and you're now calling
"morphic fields".
And basically, a
lot of the research
that you've done that
I was attracted to
suggests that we are
receiving information
that appears in our
minds as if it's
a conscious original
personal thought--
a thought that we
generated ourselves.
And what we're not seeing
is how those thoughts might
be other people's thoughts.
In our mind, what we're
using as the intellect
is drawing on some greater
collective databank.
But it's biased as personal.
So it appears as if we're only
having a conscious thought.
But it's actually coming
from some greater whole.
So I'd like to talk about that.
And I'd specifically like to
talk about the scientific data
that you've brought to the
surface that helps argue
this idea that
we're interconnected
on a level of consciousness.
So what was the
first book that you
wrote that started to
put all this together?
>>RUPERT SHELDRAKE:
My first book
came out in 1981 called
"A New Science of Life".
The third edition has just
been published under the title
"Morphic Resonance" in America.
In Britain, the new edition is
called "A New Science of Life"
still.
What I'm doing in
that book is arguing
that the so-called laws of
nature are more like habits.
Instead of all the laws, the
laws of electricity, magnetism,
gravity, all the laws that
govern chemistry and life,
being fixed at the moment
of the big bang, which
is the usual assumption,
instead, the universe
is evolutionary,
and what evolves
are the habits of nature.
In biology, what this means
is that each species has
a kind of collective memory.
So every individual draws
upon and contributes
to the collective
memory of the species.
And what the hypothesis of
morphic resonance says--
because morphic resonance
is the basis of this memory
on my hypothesis--
is that, for
example, if you train
rats to learn a new
trick in one place,
then rats all around
the world should
learn it quicker just because
the rats have learned it
in one place.
They're picking up by morphic
resonance, this habit,
this new form of learning.
And it's similar to the idea
of the collective unconscious
of Jung, the psychologist,
which suggests we all
draw upon a collective
memory and contribute to it.
So in essence, that's what
the hypothesis is about.
I started off as a
developmental biologist.
And I was already working
on the development of form
in plants and animals, how
animals and plants inherit
their form, why
a palm tree looks
like a palm tree, when a oak
tree looks like an oak tree.
Genes alone can't
account for this.
I can explain why.
But what I'm saying is that
a large part of inheritance
is collective memory, both
of form and in animals
of behavior, instincts, are a
kind of habit of the species.
>>DAVID: We have this simple
worm, Caenorhabditis elegans.
It's studied by biologists.
And the Human Genome Project
ended up mapping out our genes.
And they expected,
as I'm sure you know,
there was going to be one
gene for every protein,
and that there'd be a certain
number of genes set aside
for consciousness.
And it turns out
that we only have--
I think it was 10,000 genes
more than this very simple
roundworm.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes, and we've
got less genes than a rice
plant or a sea urchin.
So the gene thing
people used to think
that all inheritance was genes
a gene for each characteristic.
That simple model is
falling apart very fast
at the moment, partly because of
the success of the Human Genome
Project.
Now, it's possible to sequence
the genomes of people.
They've sequenced the genomes
of tens of thousands of people,
and then looked at the genomes
to see which genes code
for which characteristics.
With height, for example,
it's easy to measure height.
And it's known that if you
measure parents and children
when they're grown,
then with just a tape
measure, the tall parents
tend to have tall children.
Short parents tend to
have short children.
And you can predict the
height of the children
if you know the
height of the parents
with an accuracy of about 80%.
In other words, in the technical
term, height is 80% heritable.
So they looked at the
genes of 30,000 people.
They knew their height.
They looked at the genes.
They figured out were about
50 genes involved in height.
>>DAVID: Oh, wow.
>>SHELDRAKE: Then
they modeled which
were more important,
which were less important
and their best
mathematical models.
Then they took random
people from the sample,
looked at their genes,
worked out the height,
and compared it with
the actual height.
And they found they could
predict people's height
on the basis of their genes
with an accuracy of 5%.
With just a tape measure
and several billion dollars
less expenditure, you can do
it with an accuracy of 80%.
So the gap between
the 5% you can predict
on the basis of
genes and the 80%
that is known to be inherited is
called the missing heritability
problem.
And this is a really big problem
in biology at the moment.
Everyone expected the genes
would explain everything.
And they don't.
Well I always expected
that they wouldn't.
I have to admit it came
as no surprise to me
when they discovered the
missing heritability problem,
because for years,
I had been saying
genes are grossly overrated.
And they don't do most
things people say they do.
What they do do is code for
the sequence of amino acids
and proteins.
But there's a huge
gap between making
the right proteins and
the shape of a poppy leaf,
or the shape of a mouse, or the
shape of a human nose or arm.
It's more than just proteins.
And so form, I think, is largely
determined by morphic resonance
on the basis of this kind
of collective memory.
And obviously, the memory is
strongest from the closest
relatives, from the parents
and immediate ancestors.
>>DAVID: And you
mentioned originally
that nature is not something
that all the laws started out
with the big bang, that
it's an evolving habit.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
>>DAVID: So in
that sense, nature
is adapting to its
challenges that it's
presented with as time goes on.
And those adaptations then
become available sort of
like on the internet, that's
available to all the members
of that particular species.
>>SHELDRAKE: Exactly like that.
So when these rats
learn a new trick,
then other rats
elsewhere confronted
with the same problem can
learn the same thing quicker.
There is actually experimental
evidence that that happens.
I mean, that's
actually been done
in experiments at
Harvard, and in Edinburgh,
and Melbourne, Australia.
>>DAVID: Right, like Lamarck.
>>SHELDRAKE: Well,
except that in this case,
Lamarck's theory is that you get
the inheritance of an acquired
character.
If the parents learn
something, the children
should be able to
learn it easier.
And that happened
in this experiment.
But what also happened
in this experiment
was that rats whose parents
had not been trained also
learned it quickly.
So morphic resonance
doesn't involve
it having to go through genes,
>>DAVID: All right.
So the rats don't have to get
it from their own parents.
>>SHELDRAKE: No, they don't.
They can do--
I mean, if they're
descended from rats
that have been trained, then
it could be through the genes,
or it could be by morphic
resonance, or it could be both.
But actually, the fact that
rats whose parents have never
been exposed to it shows
that morphic resonance
can explain this.
It's a bit like
telepathy, if you like.
It doesn't require an
immediate genetic contact.
And what's more, if you
train the rats in Los Angeles
to learn something today.
Then rats in London and New
York and Sydney, Australia
should be able to
learn it straightaway.
I mean, you don't have to take
the rats from here to there.
You don't have to
breed for them.
>>DAVID: And this, of course--
and I've discussed this with
you when we first spoke--
people say, oh the
hundredth monkey effect--
that's what he's talking about.
And what I've heard
of the story is
that Japanese researchers
dropped sweet potatoes down
for monkeys.
Some of the sweet potatoes
were falling in sand.
The monkeys couldn't eat them.
And once approximately
100 monkeys
learned to wash
off the potatoes,
then they could eat
them comfortably.
Then all of a sudden, all the
monkeys on all of the islands
and the mainland all started
to be able to do this washing.
So is that how you see it?
Or is--
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, no,
that's the usual version
of the hundred monkey story.
The hundred monkey story
is saying something very
similar to what I'm saying.
It looks like morphic resonance.
The only problem is it's not
scientifically very reliable.
I prefer the thousandth
rat, because that's
a proper laboratory experiment.
But the hundredth
monkey story is actually
misleading in one sense,
that I don't think
it's a critical threshold.
The hundredth monkey
implies that nothing happens
until the hundredth monkey.
Then they all do it.
That's not how it works.
And how that story
originated is interesting.
The writer, Lyall Watson,
who is a biologist,
and I knew him quite well--
>>DAVID: Yeah, He's
got some great books.
>>SHELDRAKE: Some
very good books.
Lyall Watson worked with
researchers in Japan
who were working on monkeys.
And they told him
they'd noticed that when
they fed them sweet potatoes
to get them out on the beach
so they could film them,
they couldn't see them
if they were in the forest.
And they fed them deliberately
to get them out on the beach.
They did this with
monkeys on one island.
And when they went
to other islands
after the monkeys
on the first island
had learned to wash the potatoes
to get the sand off them,
on the other
islands, the monkeys
seemed to pick this up quicker.
That's what they
told him and that's
probably a perfectly
reliable fact,
although, it wasn't published
in a quantitative way.
In his book "Lifetide", Lyall
Watson says, let us imagine,
for the purpose of argument,
that on a particular day,
say Tuesday, an
extra monkey, say
the hundredth monkey,
learned to wash the potatoes,
then all over Japan
and all over the world,
all the monkeys
started doing it.
He makes it clear that
he's exaggerating.
He's telling a story.
"Let us suppose for the
purposes of argument", etc.
When this was repeated,
when people heard the story
in lectures and that sort
of thing or from friends,
then the story gradually
improved in the telling,
until, in some versions, it ends
up with sweet potatoes actually
growing there, and monkeys
suddenly all over Japan
digging them up, and finding
this whole new food source,
and washing them when
you reach a critical mass
of a hundredth
monkey until then.
And it was used in the
anti-nuclear movement
as an argument-- you know,
if enough people think
peaceful thoughts, suddenly the
whole world will turn peaceful.
That was where it was mostly
propagated, this story.
But interestingly, you see, they
were using a nuclear metaphor
in the anti-nuclear movement.
Critical mass is a
nuclear metaphor.
Until you get a certain amount
of uranium, nothing happens.
And suddenly you've
got an explosion.
But actually, the data
from these rat experiments
show something
much more gradual.
The more rest that learn
it, the easier it gets.
>>DAVID: So give me an
example of a behavior
that a rat learns.
And what are you saying
is happening, like a maze,
for example-- would
it be a labyrinth?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
What was happening was
it was a water maze.
They had to swim
through a water maze.
And they had to get out.
There were two exits.
One of them was lit up.
The other one was more or less
in dim light or semidarkness.
And it's one of those
old-style, cruel experiments,
where if they got
out the lit one,
they get an electric shock.
If they got out the dim
exit, they were fine.
And they kept changing
which exit was lit up
and which one was dim.
So it wasn't a matter of
going to the right or left.
They had to learn that it
was to do with the light.
And in the first rats
that were tested,
it took about 250 trials before
they learned how to get out,
and to get out of the dim
exit, not the bright one.
And then after they'd
learned, then they
did it right every time.
The next generation
took about 200 trials.
The next generation, about 150.
It got much, much
easier quite fast,
until it got down to about 25
errors before they learned it.
That happened at Harvard.
Then people took
up this research
in Edinburgh, Scotland,
and Melbourne, Australia.
And their rats, they
used the same breed
as the Harvard rats, the
same kind of apparatus.
Their rats started
more or less where
the Harvard rats left off.
They didn't go back 250 errors.
They started off about 25 or 30.
>>DAVID: That's incredible.
>>SHELDRAKE: And then
in Melbourne, they
tested in each
generation, rats that
have been descended
from trained parents,
and rats whose parents had
never been exposed to this water
maze.
They found they all got better.
And so it wasn't
to do with genes.
You see, Lamarckian
inheritance, named
after Lamarck, the
biologist who said
that acquired characters
could be inherited,
parents could pass on things
they learned or adaptations
they required to their
children, that was usually
assumed to be due to the
modification of genes.
And people said, oh,
you can't modify genes.
It defies all the
laws of genetics.
And therefore it's impossible.
So this was intensely
controversial
in the 20th century.
You couldn't have an inheritance
of acquired characteristics.
When I started
biology at Cambridge,
this was the biggest
taboo in biology.
You simply could not.
It was prohibited.
But in spite of the evidence--
>>DAVID: If you have such a
solid data point as these rats
learning it so
fast, how do they--
what's the debunking--
>>SHELDRAKE: Well,
they didn't debunk it;
they just ignored it.
And why they ignored
it-- you see,
originally, the chap
at Harvard who did this
was called William McDougall.
When McDougall
got these results,
it looked as if there was
a Lamarckian inheritance.
And because he was at
Harvard, because he
was a respected professor,
people couldn't ignore it.
So that's why they
tried repeating it
in Edinburgh and Melbourne.
And when in Melbourne
they discovered
that actually all the
rats were getting better,
not just the ones descended from
the trained ones, they said,
well look.
Whatever it is,
it's not Lamarckian.
Because it all the rats
are getting better.
So it can't be due
to modified genes.
So it's not Lamarckian.
So it's back to
business as usual,
ignoring the fact that
these series of experiments
have demonstrated a very
remarkable effect that
wasn't either genetic or
Lamarckian, but something else.
But nobody had a theory as
to what else it could be.
So it was simply ignored
as a kind of anomaly.
>>DAVID: Now, eventually you
ran some very high-profile tests
on television, where you have
these hidden figure puzzles.
And tell us a little
bit about that.
Now, the hidden figure
puzzle is what, first of all?
>>SHELDRAKE: Well, what we had
is hidden figures where you
have black and white blotches.
And when you get it, you
suddenly see an image there.
But before you get it,
you can't see what it is.
>>DAVID: So you've
got to stare at this
and try to see if there's
a hidden picture in there.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes, that's right.
Well, you know there's
a hidden picture there.
But you've got to
see what it is.
And in this experiment--
the purpose of the experiment
to see whether if lots of people
get it.
If you show them the answer,
then you get it straight away.
If I show you one of
these hidden images,
then I show you the
answer, when I show you
the hidden image again, you
instantly guet it, of course.
And it's a very quick
form of learning.
If you see the same hidden
image 10 years later,
you'll get it straightaway.
So--
>>DAVID: So you can
quantifiably measure
how long it takes somebody to
solve the puzzle as they're
staring at it if they've
never seen it before.
>>SHELDRAKE: Well,
what we quantitatively
measured was how
many people get it
without being shown the answer.
We deliberately made these
hard so only about 2% or 3%
of people get it without
being shown the answer.
What we had was two puzzles.
We did this experiment
with British television.
And this was done before
the internet came along.
And we knew the shows were only
shown in the United Kingdom.
So we had then tested
people in Germany
and in the United States.
And we had large groups
of people tested.
We tested people before
with two images--
two puzzle pictures to see what
proportion of people got them.
Then we tested similar
groups of different people
afterwards, in
Germany in the US.
But what happened in the
meantime was in Britain.
On the show, at random, and
one of these two pictures
was selected on the show itself.
That picture was shown
to millions of viewers.
And then on the screen,
it melted into the answer.
And then it melted back
into the hidden image.
So millions of people
in Britain got it.
And that's a form of learning.
If they saw it again,
they'd know what it was.
We then tested people after
that in Germany and the United
States.
>>DAVID: There was no way they
could have seen this show.
>>SHELDRAKE: There's no way
they could have seen the show.
There was no internet
in those days.
This was done in the--
when was this?
In the 1980s we did
this experiment.
So the question was, would the
second lot of people we tested
get the one that had been
shown on television easier
than the control picture?
We had a control picture
that no one had seen.
And so we knew how
well people did before.
And then after, did
this one get easier,
the one that millions had seen?
And the answer is it did.
We did this twice in Britain.
>>DAVID: Well, one of them
was the figure of a Cossack,
the guy with his mustache?
>>SHELDRAKE: That's right.
But we could show them.
I mean, this is there in my
book, "Morphic Resonance".
So the results
showed that people
were getting the more easily.
It was a significant effect.
But for some reason, on
the second experiment,
it worked better in Germany
than the United States.
We didn't know why.
But nevertheless, it was a
significant, positive result.
>>DAVID: So this suggests
that everyone in their waking
mind, when you're having what
you think are private thoughts,
there's some greater
databank, that when you yearn
for an answer, you're
adapting to your environment,
you're trying to learn how to
cope with your environment,
you're looking for the
answer, a seemingly
personal, private thought
pops into your head,
but there's some greater
databank that is coming from?
And when other people
see the answer,
and now you're trying
to find the answer,
you think it's your
own private thought,
but it's actually coming
from something greater?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
>>DAVID: And you were able
to scientifically prove that?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
It gets easier to learn,
or to do something,
or to solve a problem.
There was a catch
in this experiment.
Experiments are rarely
totally clear-cut.
The Germans then wanted to do
this experiment in Germany.
We tested people in
Britain when they showed us
new, hidden images
on a German TV show.
And the skeptics
predicted there'd
be no effect, that there'd
be no difference in Britain
as a result of
showings in Germany.
I predicted it would get
easier for people in Britain
to recognize the image.
But what actually happened
is what no one had predicted.
The image that people had seen
in Germany after Sunday lunch--
it was a Sunday
afternoon program--
and so there were
lots of probability
around the drowsy Germans
watching TV after a big German
Sunday lunch.
It actually got harder
for people in Britain
to recognize this picture
after seeing it in Germany--
significantly,
statistically significant.
So somehow, the
Germans seeing it
made it harder for the
British to recognize it.
Now, I don't know
exactly why people
can speculate about this.
It would be great to do more
experiments of this kind.
But it was hard to organize
such large-scale experiments.
So that's not been done again.
But one piece of data
that is extremely
interesting in this connection
is the data from IQ tests.
I don't know if you are
familiar with the Flynn effect.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
Well, in the 1980s in my book,
"The Presence of the Past",
which is my main theoretical
book about morphic resonance,
I predicted that IQ tests
should be getting easier
to do because millions
of people have
done more or less the same
tests over many years.
They were first
introduced around 1918.
And they've been administered
to millions and millions
of people.
So I predicted that the
average score on IQ test
should be getting
higher and higher--
not because people
are getting smarter,
but because the tests
are getting easier.
But I couldn't find the data.
I asked friends in the
psychology department
at Cambridge University,
how can I get the data?
And they asked their friends.
Nobody knew.
But then a psychologist
called James Flynn came along,
and, for different
reasons, not because he
was interested in
morphic resonance,
started looking at IQ
test data and found
that there had been spectacular
improvements, more than 30%,
during the 20th century
in intelligence,
in many different countries--
in the US, Japan, Germany,
Britain, etc.
This is now called, as you
say, the Flynn effect--
this mysterious rise
in IQ test scores.
Now, I think that this is
because of morphic resonance.
And the interesting thing is
if you look at the detail data,
there hasn't been an improvement
on factual questions,
like what is the
capital of Germany?
Or how many states are
there in the United States.
Those things you either
know or you don't know.
Where the improvement
has occurred
is in the puzzles, which you
have to solve on the spot--
puzzles, the previous knowledge
doesn't help you with.
You can only figure it out
if you're being intelligent.
Those are the bits
that have improved
under the basis of
the Flynn effect.
>>DAVID: Yeah, and it's
nonverbal abstract knowledge.
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes,
it's nonverbal.
And it's not so much knowledge,
it's solving a problem.
And the fact, after
lots of people
have solved those problems,
they get easier to solve.
And this has a bearing
on a debate that
goes on in Britain,
and the United States,
and in many other countries
about dumbing-down of tests,
because we have endless
debates in Britain about this,
that people's grades
in regular school exams
have been going up and up.
And the government says,
that's because our education
policies are working.
Kids are getting brighter.
Their critics say,
it's because the exams
are being dumbed-down to create
the illusion of the education
policy is working better.
But it could be like the
Flynn effect, you see.
It could be something that's a
morphic resonance phenomenon.
>>DAVID: Well, in this movie,
"Waking Life" that's all
rotoscoped and everybody
looks like a cartoon,
they refer to this "London
Evening Standard" crossword
puzzle and how the
crossword puzzles get easier
to solve the day after.
And apparently, it all
started from you just
leaving a comment in your
discussion forum, right?
Tell me a little bit
about the crossword.
>>SHELDRAKE: Well the
crossword experiment
actually arose from
a student project
at the University of Nottingham.
And how that arose is
that this student, a girl,
wanted to do a project
on morphic resonance
and asked me for a suggestion.
And I'd been getting letters
from people who'd read my book,
"A New Science of
Life" saying, I
found that when I'm doing "The
Times" crossword puzzle, which
is a very difficult one, I can
solve it much more easily if I
leave it till the
evening or the next day
rather than doing it first
thing in the morning.
So I had letter after
letter of people telling me
this kind of thing
about crossword puzzles
and "The Times", "The
Daily Telegraph", etc.
These are the difficult one.
And they said, maybe
it's morphic resonance.
Maybe so many people have
solved it, it's got easier.
So when this girl asked for
a suggestion, I said, well,
why not try a crossword
puzzle experiment?
But we got to get the crossword
puzzle before it's published.
And it's got to be
from a newspaper
that people can't read in
Nottingham, where she lived.
Now the "London
Evening Standard"
is not distributed
in Nottingham.
And I managed to persuade
the "London Evening Standard"
people to supply a
crossword in advance.
And she tested groups
of people before it
was published with
the test crossword
and a control crossword
that had been published
a few weeks before,
and then tested
another group of similar
people afterwards
with the test crossword
and the control crossword.
And the control crossword
should have stayed the same,
because no extra
people had done it,
whereas the test crossword
should have got easier
to solve.
And how we measured that
was how many clues people
would solve in 10 minutes.
It was an easy crossword.
It gave positive
significant results.
>>DAVID: So people involved
in much more easily
after it was published?
>>SHELDRAKE: Yes.
>>DAVID: So you confirmed
that "old wives tale."
>>SHELDRAKE: Well,
or this report
that people had found from
just their experience of doing
"The Times".
It was just people
reporting their experience.
But there are many possible
tests for morphic resonance.
My teenage son, when he
was 16, came up with one.
He came to me one
day, and he said--
he was about to do the
British national exam
called GCSE, General Certificate
of Secondary Education,
where kids in Britain have
to do eight subjects or nine
subjects.
And it's a standardized exam.
They all do it at the same
time to prevent cheating.
Otherwise, you could call up
and tell people the questions.
So he came to me very
excited one day and said, I
and my friends have worked out
a way of getting extra marks
without doing extra
work in our exams.
I said, well, how's that?
And he said, well, what
we're going to do, is say,
in the physics paper,
there's 15 questions,
he said we're going to do
questions 14 and 15 first.
Then we'll go back to
questions 1, 2, 3, 4.
And we'll be about 10
minutes behind everyone else
in Britain for those questions.
So we should get a boost
by morphic resonance.
>>DAVID: Oh, that's very cool.
>>SHELDRAKE: It was
a really good idea.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>SHELDRAKE: So I said to him,
well, some of your friends
must have been morphic
resonance skeptics,
I'm used to skeptical
responses to these ideas.
He said, yes, the worst of the
morphic resonance skeptics.
And I said, well,
what did they say?
They said, what if morphic
resonance doesn't really
happen?
And he said, we worked out,
if it doesn't really happen,
we wouldn't lose anything.
But if it does happen,
we'd get this extra boost.
So they actually did
this in the exams.
And they all got
brilliant results.
But they may have been brilliant
to start with, of course.
But this does suggest one
way of doing this experiment
I had a friend who was
in charge of the science
exams for the
Oxford and Cambridge
examination board for schools.
And so I said to him, look.
We could do a massive
morphic resonance test.
Just change the
order of questions
in a subsample of papers.
So a random sample of
children in Britain
do them in different order.
And the question, would they
get higher marks on average
if they did the questions
later than other people?
And I said, it
wouldn't cost anything.
Just print a few papers
differently, and analyze
the results and stuff.
And at first, he
was quite excited.
But then he called
me a few days later.
He said, look Rupert.
He said, I'm due to retire soon.
He said, I want to
get a full pension.
He said, if I turn our
national examination system
into a morphic resonance
experiment, that's
not going to happen.
So sorry.
I can't do it.
Because he was frightened,
because this is controversial
stuff.
And actually, I think the idea
of a science exam being turned
into a science experiment that
would be a harmless experiment,
no one would be harmed by it--
well, it might give
an unfair advantage
to the minority sample who got
the morphic resonance boost.
I thought that it
was a good idea.
Well, anyway he didn't.
And so it didn't happen.
But that would be a
really good experiment.
>>DAVID: I hope
you're starting to see
that what Rupert
Sheldrake is doing
is inviting us into an
entirely new way of looking
at ourselves, and others, and
the universe that we live in.
We are still addicted to
this ridiculous concept
that all of the things that
make a biological life form,
the way that it is, and the
consciousness that it has
and the personality
characteristics that it has,
are all contained within the
DNA in what we call genes.
And yet, that theory has
just been demolished.
Furthermore, we're
seeing that there are
definite telepathic effects.
People are solving
crossword puzzles better
after others have
looked at them.
You can even try to
cheat on tests that way.
It's sad that there's such
institutional opposition
to this, that the
college professor didn't
want to turn a basic exam
into a morphic resonance test.
But that proves the
level of opposition
that's still out there.
So we have a lot more coming up
for you with Rupert Sheldrake.
This is just the beginning.
And this is
disclosure in action,
because the cabal does not want
you to know about this stuff.
It restores our
divine potential.
It brings the power back to us.
And that's what disclosure
for me is all about.
It's about stripping
away the lies
and getting back to all
of the suppressed things
that the power elite
do not want us to know.
So I hope you're enjoying
watching Disclosure, speaking
truth to power, and
giving power to the truth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]